---
title: 2.0.0
---

- Custom ListParsers on `@Coat.Config` annotation are now correctly applied to
  that class only. Previously they influenced all other classes, too.

- A new default converter for URIs is provided by Coat.

- The runtime performance of calling the accessor methods of the config object
  has been massively improved by executing all validation and type conversion
  at creation time of the config object.

- BREAKING CHANGE: The publicly visible generated class in now not the concrete
  implementation of the config interface anymore, but instead the builder to
  create it. The actual implementation is now hidden.
  To create an instance of the builder an new static `Builder#create()` method
  is provided.

- BREAKING CHANGE: The name of the generated builder class can be specified as
  was the case with the generated implementation before. But the special
  handling of a leading underscore has been removed.

- BREAKING CHANGE: Validation is now always done on creating the config object
  via builder. Therefore no separate validate method will be available anymore.
  That also means that the `ConfigValidationException` will be thrown on
  calling the `build()` method of the builder or one of the static factory
  methods.

- BREAKING CHANGE: Custom global converters and list parsers are not registered
  on the config implementation anymore, but instead on the `Coat` class that
  also provides the annotations.

- BREAKING CHANGE: The MessageDigestConverter that was provided by default
  before has been dropped. As it is a stateful object it is not thread-safe and
  therefore doesn’t fit the Coat concept. Of course it can still be provided by
  the application itself if the missing thread-safety is of no concern. It just
  isn’t provided by default anymore.

- The example app now uses a List instead of an array as arrays are always
  mutable and should be avoided in Coat config classes.

## Migration guide

While the list above is mainly comprised of breaking changes, they are all very
straight forward and migration from an older version of Coat is rather easy.
The static factory methods of the previously generated config class are
provided by the builder now.

For example a using the static factory methods before was:

```java
final ImmutableMyConfig config= ImmutableMyConfig.from(new File("/path/to/config.properties"));

CoatConfig.registerConverter(new MyCustomConverter());

try {
  config.validate();
} catch (ConfigValidationException ex) {
  …
}
```

and now becomes:

```java
Coat.registerGlobalConverter(new MyCustomConverter());

try {
  final MyConfig config= MyConfigBuilder.from(new File("/path/to/config.properties"));
} catch (ConfigValidationException ex) {
  …
}
```

Using the builder before was:

```java
final ImmutableMyConfig config= ImmutableMyConfig.builder().add(props).addEnvVars().build();

try {
  config.validate();
} catch (ConfigValidationException ex) {
  …
}
```

and now becomes:

```java
try {
  final MyConfig config= MyConfigBuilder.create().add(props).addEnvVars().build();
} catch (ConfigValidationException ex) {
  …
}
```

